---
title: "mcmsupply: An R Package for Estimating Contraceptive Method Market Supply Shares"
authors:
- Hannah Comiskey
- Niamh Cahill
date: "2023-08-18T00:00:00Z"
doi: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09434"

# Schedule page publish date (NOT publication's date).
publishDate: "2017-01-01T00:00:00Z"

# Publication type.
# Accepts a single type but formatted as a YAML list (for Hugo requirements).
# Enter a publication type from the CSL standard.
publication_types: ["article"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated publication name.
publication: "R Journal"
publication_short: ""

abstract: In this paper, we introduce the R package mcmsupply which implements Bayesian hierarchical models for estimating and projecting modern contraceptive market supply shares over time. The package implements four model types. These models vary by the administration level of their outcome estimates (national or subnational estimates) and dataset type utilised in the estimation (multi-country or single-country contraceptive market supply datasets). mcmsupply contains a compilation of national and subnational level contraceptive source datasets, generated by IPUMS and Demographic and Health Survey microdata. We describe the functions that implement the models through practical examples. The annual estimates and projections with uncertainty of the contraceptive market supply, produced by mcmcsupply at a national and subnational level, are the first of their kind. These estimates and projections have diverse applications, including acting as an indicator of family planning market stability over time and being utilised in the calculation of estimates of modern contraceptive use.

tags:
- CRAN

featured: true

links:
url_pdf: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09434
url_code: ''

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
image:
  caption: 'R badge for mcmsupply'
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false
